wirte doen the exeercises u did

from birth most of us are taught that only person who can help s if something does wrong in the body is a doctor...but its a myth

keeping a diary wil help u see longer trends and gives more reliable eedback. dont rely on memory

straiing the eye is reatest causes....so u can do exercise by wering the glasses

lenses are a crutch

bcos of lack of movement and usage the blood doesot circulate and eye is deprived of nutrition

some people have the ability to follow it through o matter how they feel and they are the usual peole who suceed.

doing the thigs i said i would do , long after the mood i said it in has left me.

i dont want crutches in lyf and i start the exercise ith eyes
i lok attractive without lenses 


dont read when sick or tired

dont read in dim light

avoid slumping or hanging ur head down

hold book 20 inches away

dont read for more than 30 min at a time

avoid straining...its like lifting heavy weight when ur body is not conditioned to do so

long exposure to cold winds, strig artificial lights

look up regularly and gaze into distance

softare break reminder

dont read  while having meal or go out for 30mins

avoid squinting

ues eye washer

sun improves eyes and pupil 

massage between brows and under them

do face and neck massae before going to bed

close eyes tightly,sqeeze them and open suddenly , stretch eye mucsles in every way possible 

remember to keep breathing when exercising

love ur eyes

it is not the exercise that builds mucles. it is the resting phase after it.

tears are natures eye drops

regularly throghout the day, visualize urself with perfect vision.

palming - relaxation is the key

masters say that too much outward gazing at all the exciting and fast moving things int he world upset the inner balance of our spiritual third eye.

perfect balckness that is recalled and perceived indicates that midn is at peace.



visualizing green is alternative

palming in kneeing fetal position or squatting fetal position 

tracking / edging

pheripheral vision technique - keep eyes looking strainght al the time.

hidu yoga accomoative eye exercise  far near far ear

whipping

eye power gaze - close eyes , shut it tighter, see object with ful force and to corners 

letter gazing techique - close one eye but keep it open

candle gazing tech - candle at arms lenght. eye level, gaze steadily without blinking 5mins. breath naturally . do some palming
according to taoism less movement brings more magnetic poer and control into the eyes and nervous system 


yoga sun gazing - sunrise or sunset hen su is red, gaze wide open, take deep breaths, do palming 

kriya yoga - make a dot on paper and stick it 1mt. dont move head
blink hard and fast 20 times
look up down left right diagnal then focus on wall. do this 10 times
make cross eyed.

eye gymnastics - do kriya yoga and gently press eye bals into sokets with fingers for 10secs
step2 - make quick small circles very gently.

hot and cold hydro therapy - hot- blood vessles open up
cld - opposite 	
so apply alternate therapies for 30 ecs each
very effective exercise

eyes are connected to liver  and helaing liver will heal eyes
open eyes wide
breath in slowly gradually squezig ur eyes for 10 secs. exhale with shhhh sound while opeing the eyes
repeat 5 times


ecret to longitivity  - sit , back straight,close eyes, 1st 2 finder pds on eyelids gently
breath in deeply gently, hold breath, move eyes top down 3 times
exhale making shhh sound. take deep breath and relax
repeat with left right , clockwise movements

naturopathic eye massage
palm on bony ridge above eye 
palm on temples
fingers on cheek bone
and press hard and move the skin in al directions
effective tech for increased blood flow


walking bare footed in bed of sand , beach, grass, in cold water upto anckles
highly effective.

stomach and liver massage - rubbing , kneading, massaging, poking gently, the area under let and right rib cage


tenseness around neck and shoulders causes severe eye tension

rub scalpp of head with ur fingers from front to back 

head lift tech - good for eyes ad ears
place hands on mastaid proturberance. lift head upord and little farowrd. rotate head left right using hands.relax the neck doing this.

stroking eyebrow tech
thumbs on temple. strke knuckes of for fingers

scrb face with palms

cold,flu,lug congestion is basic cuase for eye problem bcos of the position of eye . so nasal masage helps eye. little finger in sesame oil and massage into nostrills.expecting a sneeze.


lazy 8 neck loosening exercise
draw 8 vertically horizontally with ur nose

spine straighttening movement - let head all back standing in upright position and breath slowly for 15 sec

eye breathing  - sit relax and breath and imagine the eyes have become lungs

sufi breathing tech - breath deep through left nostrill. close nose. bend about waist for 40 secs. feel the bloosd flow to head. exhale from right nostrill.


oriental jade hop
thinking,reading  too much causes ur energyto stay in head and u become ungoruded and unstable.
so try grounding ur energy. 
stand straingt  and relax. hop gently on ur toes about 1-2 inches utile u feel out of breath


foot slapping - one of the best.
acupoint in ur foot iwll open up after a week.
sit put leg on others tigh. slap the sole with the palm. slap rhythemically and slowly 50-100 times each foot.

try juggling - iporve eye muxkes and peripheral vision.


natural = healthy
processed = unhealthy
a good rule of thumb.

anyting u do to ur liver - cleaning fasting, specil liver herbs will also help eyes

donot overeat

chew ur food well


eat as much organic as u can

sugar is deadliest for eyes
even excess natural sugars in honey weake eye

fruit juices are concentrated sugars, dilute it with water

avoid white flour

beware of oil that has undergone any kind of processing including heating.
avoid 
soy oil
cotton seed oil

include
olive
sesame
sunflower


bilberry - amazing herb

bowel cleansing
















