We think not just with our brains but with our bodies, Dr. Galinsky said, and our thought processes are based on physical experiences that set off associated abstract concepts. Now it appears that those experiences include the clothes we wear.


you want people to think that looking as good as you do was effortless and easy


A super models tip: Walk like a man. Stand like a supermodel Stand and deliver!


Next time you’re the subject of a photo op, pretend there is a clock at your feet.Right foot goes at twelve and left foot at ten

It also makes for a better photo if you push your shoulders back, keep your eyes wide open (smiling tends to close your eyes), and lower your chin

If you walk with your head down it lets other people be more important than you

The first place nervous energy shows is in your hands


 People are most comfortable with people who are “like” themselves (in dress, mannerisms, thoughts, etc.). Mirror: Try to “mirror” the other person’s body position and mannerisms such as speech speed


Keep your pitch low. There are more men on radio, because people respond better to lower pitched voices


A smile can be heard over the phone,



But to women, color is a whole different planet. Women divide humanity into four groups (by seasons) by looking at their skin, hair and eye color.Women choose car color keeping in mind how it will enhance her hair, eye and skin colors, 


Women actually notice what color your eyes are, and they like it when you make your necktie match your eyeballs


Dark, cool, muted colors in a suit can make you
appear 10 to 15 pounds slimmer

----------------------------------------------
you do not need 8 hours of sleep to function properly
during the day

This periodic rise and drop in body temperature tells our mind when to feel tired and
when to feel more awake. As body temperature rises, we tend to feel more awake
and our brain waves are usually higher. As body temperature drops, we tend to feel
more lethargic, tired, and lazy - this is a big cue for our minds to lower brain waves
and enter Stage 1 sleep.


This periodic rise and drop in body temperature tells our mind when to feel tired and
when to feel more awake. As body temperature rises, we tend to feel more awake
and our brain waves are usually higher. As body temperature drops, we tend to feel
more lethargic, tired, and lazy - this is a big cue for our minds to lower brain waves
and enter Stage 1 sleep.


Melatonin is a hormone synthesized in the pineal gland and, to a lesser extent, in
the retina. Melatonin is responsible for putting you to sleep and restoring physical
energy while we sleep. If your melatonin levels are high, you will experience feelings
of drowsiness, loss of energy, etc.
Melatonin is released when we're exposed to darkness. The instant sunlight stops
entering our eyes, our melatonin hormone level begins to rise. Your melatonin levels
are EXTREMELY dependant on the amount of natural sunlight that enters your eyes
during the day!



Exercise creates a higher “peak” point of body temperature during the day, which will
increase your energy levels far beyond anything else. Exercise delays the body temperature drop at the end of the day, allowing you to stay awake and alert longer.
Finally, exercise will make the drop of body temperature at the end of the day more
drastic

-----------------------------------------
We may feel like we’re just being polite by asking to get someone else a drink, but there’s a sad reality that buying drinks for someone else is a predatory tool used by rapists.
Rather than “Can I get you a drink?” we can say, “Want to go get a drink with me?”


Let’s face it: Men are socialized to dominate conversations and place ourselves as the center of attention.

 “Wear consent swag! ‘Consent is sexy’ being publicly displayed is always good.”


---------------

One of the “rules” for coordination of a suit, tie and dress shirt is “Two Plains and One Fancy” meaning that of the three items—shirt, tie and suit—two of them should always be plain (solid) and the third should be fancy (patterned).

The strongest authoritative professional clothing is no pattern – a solid color.


There is a “Rule of Seven” practiced in women’s fashion that applies to men as well.  The “rule” states that there should be no more than seven points of interest on your body at any one time!

The theory is that too much visual stimulation detracts from the total look.

Points of interest could be a watch, pocket square, bright tie, blazer buttons, braces, cuff links, fashion glasses, facial hair, vest, anything that could draw attention to that item.

---------------------------------