color therapy

Magnesium is known as nature's tranquilliser

To Lower Blood Pressure, Be Faithfully Vegetarian

Fasting is a time of rest

The mud or clay bath is another mode of the nature cure

The quenching of unrequited sexual desire is accomplished through the neutral hipbath

Steam bath is one of the most important time-tested water treatments which induces perspiration
in a most natural way

Two hours of sleep before midnight are more beneficial than four after

To avoid headache, avoid eyestrain

Headaches may be a symptom of hypertension

The feelings of discomfort and distress in the abdomen are often caused by overeating, eating
too rapidly or not chewing properly

Low blood sugar is caused by too much sugar

Meditation will help create an amount of balance in the nervous system

Meat and eggs cause the blood pressure to rise more
than any other food

How can you know your headache is due to stress? The answer is simple. Tight neck muscles are a sign of stress. Pain across the forehead is a sign of stress

To cure a headache, eat something (as long as it is not sugar).

The depressive mood can be overcome by activity

The foremost consideration in the treatment of this disorder is to keep the hair and scalp clean
so as to minimise the accumulation of dead cells.

The normal body chemistry is
approximately 20 per cent acid and 80 per cent alkaline. This is the acid-alkaline balance
Acid works danger, but base works health


Thus, our daily diet should consist of four-fifth of alkaline-forming foods such as juicy fruits,
tubers, legumes, ripe fruits, leafy and root vegetables and one fifty of acid-forming foods
containing concentrated proteins and starches such as meat, fish, bread and cereals. Eating
sensibly in this manner will ensure the necessary alkalinity of the food which will keep the body
in perfect health

Activity uses the body to a limited degree and generally to achieve a specific purpose. Exercise employs the body over the widest possible range of movement for the particular purpose of maintaining or acquiring muscle tone and control with maximum joint flexibility. Activity requires less physical effort and often less conscious effort once the routine has been established. Exercise demands considerable physical effort and is more beneficial as mental
concentration is simultaneously employed.


To heal disease, first remove toxins

The first and most basic principle of nature cure is that all forms of disease are due to the same cause, namely, the accumulations of waste materials and bodily refuse in the system


A fundamental teaching of Ayurveda is that the common cause of all diseases is the accumulation of waste and poisonous matter in the body which results from overeating

Every disease can be healed by only one remedy - by doing just the opposite of what causes it, that is, by reducing the food intake or fasting

fasting is merely the process of purification and an effective and quick method of cure.

Whenever the alkalinity of the blood is reduced, even slightly, its ability to transport the carbon
dioxide gets reduced

Often forgotten in cases of cirrhosis of the liver is that the patient must have bed rest.
He must also abstain completely from alcohol in any form. He should undergo an initial liver cleaning programme with a juice fast for seven days

The white light of the moon originates in the sun and contains seven different colours - violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange and red. These are natural colours which are highly beneficial to the maintenance of health and for healing diseases


Check your pulse before a meal. Then limiting that meal to one food only, wit for half an hour
after eating and take your pulse again.
A slight increase is considered normal, even up to 16 extra beats. If your pulse does not rise above 84, you may be allergy-free. But if your pulse rises beyond that point, and remains high an hour after the meal, you have found your food allergy.

Do not rely on the nature cure for treatment of cataracts


The process of digestion begins in the mouth. The saliva in the moth, besides helping to
masticate the food, carries an enzyme called ptyalin which begins the chemical action of
digestion. It initiates the catabolism (breakdown) of carbohydrates by converting starches into
simple sugars.


The most effective way to treat alcoholism is to build the body's nutritional integrity soaps to
prevent craving for stimulants like drinks. The patients should be put on a cleansing juice fast for at least ten days in the beginning.

The more fibre, the better


Emotional stress also plays an important part, and heart attacks are more common during the
periods of mental and emotional disturbances, particularly in those engaged in sedentary
occupations.


Here are the Ten Commandments for Problem Drinkers, as given by psychiatrist Dr. William B. Terhune. These are:
(i) Never drink when you "need one."
(ii) Sip slowly.
(iii) Space your drinks, waiting 30 minutes for a second drink after the first and then an hour before the third.
(iv) Dilute your alcohol.
(v) Keep an accurate and truthful records of the number of drinks you take.
(vi) Never conceal the amount you drink.
(vii) Never drink on an empty stomach.
(viii) Never drink on cue (for lunch, for dinner, just because you are tired, in bedroom seduction, because you are bored or frustrated, or at bedtime).
(ix) Never take a drink in the morning to break a hangover.
(x) And never drink to escape discomfort, either physical or mental.


When on a raw juice therapy, the prescribed juice should be drunk every three hours. One can
thus take juices five to six times a day.


Persons suffering from hypertension must ensure at least eight hours of restful sleep


Certain precautions are necessary in adopting an exclusive diet of raw juices. Firstly,
all juices should be made fresh immediately before drinking

only as much juice as needed for immediate consumption should be
extracted. Raw juices oxidise rapidly and lose their medicinal value in storage, even under
refrigeration.

In
case of incomplete extraction of juices, their effective power is proportionately reduced due to
the absence of the vitamins and enzymes which are left behind in fibre and the pulp.


if juices are too sweet they should be diluted in water on 50: 50 basis or mixed with other less sweet juices


Fruits, however, make better combination with milk than with meals.

Most of the vegetables are, therefore, best consumed in their natural raw state in the form of salads


An important rule for food combining is to avoid mixing carbohydrates and acid fruits in the
same meal
Thus
tomatoes should not be eaten with starches especially potatoes or bread


In a nutshell, starches, fats, green vegetables and sugars may be eaten together as they require either an alkaline or neutral medium for their digestion. Similarly, proteins, green vegetables and acid fruits may be eaten together as they require an acid or neutral medium for their digestion.
But starches and proteins, fats and proteins and starches and acid fruits should not be eaten
together as a general rule, if the best results are required from the ingestion of the food eaten.
This in brief is the whole basis for successful food combination


Bran, the outer coverings of grains, is one of the richest sources of dietary fibre

Milk is an excellent food. It is considered as " Nature's most nearly perfect food." The best way to take milk is in its soured form - that is, yoghurt and cottage cheese

An important point to remember about meals is that the smaller the number of courses they
consist of, the better it will be. They should approximate to a one-course meal as much as
possible.

On a quality rating scale of 1 to 100, egg protein is 95, milk is 82, meat and poultry are 67, fish 80, grains are between 50 to 70 and legumes, nuts and seeds are between 40 and 60.


On a quality rating scale of 1 to 100, egg protein is 95, milk is 82, meat and poultry are 67, fish 80, grains are between 50 to 70 and legumes, nuts and seeds are between 40 and 60.


The most important rule for combining foods is to avoid mixing protein and carbohydrate
concentrated foods. Although every food contains some protein, those regarded as protein
concentrated foods demand the longest digestive time

The second important rule for food combining is to avoid mixing proteins and fats at the same
meal.
Fat in foods inhibits the secretion of gastric juice through the small wall


A meal consisting of proteins, carbohydrates and fats may remain in the stomach for six to seven hours before the stomach is emptied. If carbohydrates are eaten without proteins, they remain in the stomach for a relatively short period. A fruit meal remains in the stomach for even shorter time.
It is advisable to eat these different foods at different meals- a fruit meal, a starch meal
and a protein meal. The ideal practice is a fruit meal for breakfast, a starch meal with salad and
non- starchy vegetables for lunch, and a protein meal with a salad and non-starchy vegetables
for dinner


Owing to their differing actions, fruit and vegetable juices should not be used at the same time or mixed together. It is desirable to use juices individually. In any case not more than three juices should be used in any one mixture.


Fruit and vegetable juices may be divided into six main types. These are
• Juices from sweet fruits such as prunes and grapes.
• Juices from sub-acid fruits like apple, plum, pear, peach, apricot and cherry,
• Juices from acid fruits like orange, lemon, grapefruit, strawberry and pineapple.
• Juices from vegetable fruits, namely, tomato and cucumber.
• Juices from green leafy vegetables like cabbage, celery, lettuce, spinach, parsley and watercress.
• Juices from root vegetables like beetroot, carrot, onion, potato and radish.
There are rules for successful use of the six types of juices. They are:
• Juices from sweet fruits may be combined with juices of sub-acid fruits, but not with those of acid fruits, vegetable fruits or vegetables.
• Juices from sub-acid fruits may be combined with juices of sweet fruits, or acid fruits, but not with other juices.
• Juices from acid fruits may be combined with those of sub-acid fruits or vegetable fruits, but not with other juices.
• Juices from vegetable fruits may be combined with those of acid fruits or of green leafy vegetables, but not with other juices.
• Juices from green leafy vegetables may be combined with those of vegetable fruits or of the root vegetable, but not with other juices.
• Juices from root vegetables may be combined with those of green leafy vegetables, but no t with other juices.


For chronic conditions of the lower back, consider the alternate hipbath


Unpleasant situations at bed time such as arguments, quarrels, watching a horror movie, listening to loud music which would create anxiety, fear, excitement and worries should be avoided. Such situations stimulate the cerebral cortex and tend to keep one awake


Another important rule is not to have heavy food shortly before bed time.


The surprising cure for male impotence is derived from the simple soybean. For sexual potency, take lecithin
All that must be remembered in taking this entirely non-toxic supplement is that "more is not always better." When your stomach begins to reject the supplement, you have taken enough. Signs of excessive dosage are loose bowels and very mildly acidic stomach

Massage benefits many nerve problems


practice of any relaxation method or meditation technique, cultivating the art of doing things slowly (particularly activities like eating, walking and talking) limiting the working day to nine to ten hours and five and a half days weekly, cultivating a creative hobby and spending some time daily on this, avoiding working against unrealistic targets and completing one task before starting another


Direct physical damage to the male reproductive tract can result in impotence. In most cases, however, there is no obvious reason for this condition.
The main problem of secondary impotence is the apprehension created by failure
which generates a good deal of anxiety for the next time round regarding the likelihood of failure.


Nutrients which help keep the nerves relaxes are of utmost importance as nervousness causes all the muscles to become
tense and the energy which goes into the tenseness wastefully uses up a great deal of food


Add colour to your health with colour-charged water.
For this technique, coloured bottles are needed. These bottles should be cleaned and filled up to three-fourths level with fresh well water, distilled water or rain water. The bottles should be corked and then placed in bright sunlight for three to four hours. After this exposure, the water is said to acquire medicinal properties and this colour-charged water can be used both internally and for external applications.

Diet therapy for liver disease.

The patient should be put on a fruit juice fast for a week. The juice of lemon, grapes, pear,
carrot, beet, and sugarcane can be taken.

Massage is an excellent form of passive exercise


There are five fundamental modes of manipulation in massage. These are effleurage (stroking), friction (rubbing), petrissage (kneading), tapotment (percussion) and vibration (shaking or trembling).


Vigorous exercise of any kind should not be taken for an hour and a half after eating, nor
immediately before meals
The purpose of exercise should be to make you feel refreshed and relaxed and not tired. The most important rule about the fitness plan is to start with very light exercise and to increase the effort in gradual and easy stages.


Instead of rushing to complete your day before your evening meal, consider fasting. Use the 2 to 3 hours you would expend on dinner to meditate and "recharge" spiritually.


The majority of persons eat too much and follow sedentary occupations that do not permit sufficient and proper exercise for utilisation of this large quantity of food

In most
cases, however, no harm will accrue to fasting patients, provided they take rest, and are under
proper professional care

Only very simple exercises like short walks may be undertaken during the fast.
The period of the fast, however, should not exceed a week of total fasting at a time.

Fasting sometimes produces a state of sleeplessness which can be overcome by a warm tub bath, hot water bottles at the feet and by drinking one or two glasses of hot water.
Seriously sick persons have no desire for food and fasting comes naturally to them. The simplest rule is to stop eating until the appetite returns or until one feels completely well.

This is the most significant phase. The main rules for breaking the fast are these:
* Do not overeat.
* Eat slowly.
* Chew your food thoroughly.
* Take several days for the gradual change to the normal diet


The best substitute drink for alcohol is a
glass of fresh fruit juice, sweetened with honey, if desired
Apples are considered valuable in the treatment of alcoholism


Carrot is also considered useful in impotence. For better results, carrot should be taken with a
half-boiled egg dipped in a tablespoonful of honey once daily for a month or two

The lady's finger is another great tonic for improving sexual vigour. It has been mentioned in
ancient Indian literature that the persons who take five to 10 g of root powder of this
vegetable with milk and 'misri' daily will never lose sexual vigour


Canned juices contain proteins that have been "shocked" in the process of heating the product to prevent bacterial growth. These "polyamines" enter the bloodstream and encourage the growth of abnormal cells, both infection and cancer.

Figs are an excellent food remedy for increasing weight in case of thinness


There are certain foods which are associated with stress and anxiety and should be scrupulously avoided by patients. These foods are caffeine and many soft drinks, which causes nervousness, irritability and palpitation; salt which has been associated with heart diseases; cigarettes which cause tension, irritability and sleeplessness and which have been linked with cancer, and alcohol which depletes vitamins of the B group considered essential for reducing stress.

Chewing unripe guava is an excellent tonic for teeth and gums. It stops the bleeding from gums
due its styptic effect and richness in vitamin C

Pears are regarded the next best fruit beneficial in the treatment of constipation.


An abnormally high intake of milk, alkalis or vitamin D may also result in the
formation of calcium phosphate stones.
For controlling the formation of calcium phosphate stones, a moderately low calcium and
phosphorous diet should be taken.




The juices extracted from raw fruits and vegetables require no digestion and almost all their vital nutrients are assimilated directly in the bloodstream

Lemon peel is believed to be one of the richest known sources of vitamin P. It strengthens the entire arterial system.
Shredded lemon peel may be added to soups and stews, or sprinkled over salads


Several home remedies have been found useful in the treatment of dandruff. The use of fenugreek (methi) seeds is one such remedy. Two tablespoons of fenugreek seeds should be
soaked overnight in water. The softer seeds should be ground into a fine paste in the morning. This paste should be applied all over the scalp and left for half-an hour. The hair should then be washed thoroughly with soap nut (ritha) solution or shikakai.
The use of a teaspoon of fresh lime juice for the last rinse, while washing hair, is equally
beneficial. This not only leaves the hair glowing but also removes stickiness and prevents
dandruff. Washing the hair twice a week with green gram powder in curd is another useful
prescription.
Dandruff can be removed by massaging one's hair or half-an- hour with curd which has been
kept in the open for three days, or with a few drops of lime juice mixed with amla juice every
night, before going to bed. Another measure which helps to counteract dandruff is to dilute cider vinegar with an equal quantity of water and dab this on to the hair with cotton wool in between shampooing. Cider vinegar added to the final rinsing water after shampooing also helps to disperse dandruff.


Certain home remedies have also been found useful in case of patchy loss of hair. The seeds of lime and black pepper seeds, ground to get a fine paste, is one of the valuable remedies. This paste applied on the patches, has mildly irritant action. This increases blood circulation in the affected area and stimulates hair growth. The paste should be applied twice a day for a few
weeks.
Another useful remedy for patchy loss of hair is the paste of liquorice (mulethi) made by grinding the pieces in milk with a pinch of saffron. This paste should be applied over the bald patches at night before going to bed.


Several home remedies have been found useful in the prevention and treatment of the loss of
the hair. The most effective among these remedies is a vigorous rubbing of the scalp with fingers after washing the hair with cold water. The scalp should be rubbed vigorously until it starts to tingle with the heat. It will activate the sebaceous glands and energise the circulation of blood in the affected area, making the hair grow healthy.
Amla oil, prepared by boiling dry pieces of amla in coconut oil, is considered a valuable hair tonic for enriching hair growth. A mixture of equal quantity of fresh amla juice and lime juice used as a shampoo stimulates hair growth and prevents hair loss.
Lettuce (salad-ka-patta) is useful in preventing hair loss through deficiencies. A mixture of
lettuce and spinach juice is said to help the growth of hair if it is drunk to the extent of half a litre a day. The juice of alfalfa (lucerne) in combination with carrot and lettuce juice, taken daily also helps the growth of hair to a remarkable extent. The combination of these juices is rich in
elements which are particularly useful for the growth of hair.


Garlic soup is an ancient remedy to reduce the severity of cold


Raw vegetable juices, especially carrot juice, taken separately or in combination with juices of
beets and cucumbers, is highly valuable in overcoming fatigue. The formula proportions
considered helpful in the combination juice of 500 ml are carrot 300 ml and beet and cucumber
100 ml each.


You are surely worth your salt. Salt is the essential source of the mineral sodium. Sodium chloride, the chemical name for common salt, contains 39 per cent of sodium, an element which never occurs in free form in nature

Both deficiency and excess of salt may produce adverse effects o the human body


The human body needs calcium more than any other mineral. A man weighing 70 kg contains
one kg of calcium. About 99 per cent of the quantity in the body is used for building strong
bones and teeth and the remaining one per cent is used by the blood, muscles and nerves


There are a large variety of vitamins in the B group, the more important being B1 or thiamine, B2 or riboflavin, B3 or niacin or nicotinic acid, B6 or pyridoxine, B9 or folic acid, B12 and B5 or
pantothenic acid. B vitamins are synergistic. They are more potent together than when used
separately


a world famous chemist and nutrition expert, " because vitamin C is one of the least toxic vitamins, it is very safe to use in high doses." Your body will take exactly what it needs and excrete any excess naturally."


Massage of the back is recommended in constipation, haemorrhoids, weakness and congestion of the bladder and sexual organs

Liberal intake of curry leaves is considered beneficial in preventing premature greying of hair

The power to cure disease lies within the body itself and not in the hands of the doctor. This is the third principle of the nature cure
Drugs usually hinder the self-healing efforts of the body and make recovery more difficult. According to the late Sir William Osler, an eminent physician and surgeon, when drugs are used, the patient has to recover twice - once from the illness, and once from the drug.

To cure disease, the first and foremost requirement is to regulate the diet

A simple rule is: do not eat heavy foods when you are sick, stick to a light diet of fresh fruits


Other natural methods useful in the cure of diseases are air and sunbaths, exercise and
massage. Air and sunbaths revive dead skin and help maintain it in a normal condition. Exercise, especially yogic asanas, promotes inner health and harmony and helps eliminate all tension: physical, mental and emotional. Massage tones up the nervous system and quickens blood circulation and the metabolic process

The diabetic should not be afraid to eat fresh fruits and vegetables which contain sugar and
starch. Fresh fruits contain sugar fructose, which does not need insulin for its metabolism and is well tolerated by diabetics

The Fletcher Method of Weight Control
After a deep study, he made some important discoveries and prescribed the rules for "Fletcherism" which are as follows:
1. Chew your food to a pulp or milky liquid until it practically swallows itself.
2. Never eat until hungry.
3. Enjoy every bite or morsel, savouring the flavour until it is swallowed.
4. Do not eat when tired, angry, worried, and at meal-time refuse to think or talk about
unpleasant subjects.


To lose weight, perspire. Exercise and the steam bath are equally effective

Everything You Need to Know About Sexually Transmitted Diseases
The only safe way of treating venereal disease is fasting

The flesh of slaughtered animals is poisoned by the emotion of fear.
As is well known, emotions of worry, fear and anger actually poison blood and tissues. Imagine the excitable condition of animals after many days of travel, closely packed in shaking vehicles- hungry, thirsty, scared en route to the slaughter-houses. Many die even before the end of their journey. Others are driven half dead with fear and exhaustion to the slaughter pans, their instinctive fear of death augmented by the sight and odour of the blood shambles.
Sodium naturally present in animal flesh and sodium added to the meat captures adrenaline in forms that are extremely toxic. In its purest form, this sodium-bound adrenaline can even cause heart attack. Avoid this toxin by avoiding the flesh of slaughtered animals


Here is a surprising remedy for short sight:
Sun gazing: Sit on a bench facing the sun with your eyes closed and gently sway sideways
several times for 18 minutes. Open the eyes and blink about ten times at the sun and look at
some greenery. This helps nearsightedness and is good for inflamed eyes.
Also helpful is the procedure called palming:
1. Rub both palms together quickly for 8-10 seconds. This friction creates a mild heat.
2. Close the eyes and gently place the left palm over the left eye and the right palm over the right eye for one minute. Do not press the eyeballs with the palms, just let them gently rest there. Breathe in and out slowly to release stress.
3. Repeat 2-3 times.
4. Other poses that strengthen the eyes include the Bhujangasana (snake pose), Surya Namaskara (sun salutes), and Shavasana (rest pose).

Going barefooted all day long, except when it is very cold, is also regarded as a valuable step
towards achieving good health and true happiness.
Men can draw vital energy and strength out of the earth through their feet. Jesus Christ also attached a great deal of importance to the practice of going barefooted. He himself was barefooted and commanded his disciples likewise. It is advisable to go entirely barefooted as often as possible, especially on the bare ground but in rooms with painted floors it is better to wear sandals, since the painted floor affects the body adversely if one walks on it with bare soles.


A simple rule of colour therapy is this:
Blue + Red = Purple
The colour purple has potent healing effects.
Purple or indigo combines the blood-warming red and the cooling antiseptic blue. It is an excellent stimulant without being an irritant. Today eat some familiar purple food, such as black carrot, berries, or purple grapes


An exciting remedy for allergy has been discovered by an Indian physician, Dr. Hement Pathak. He found that the use of five drops of castor oil in a little juice or water taken on an empty stomach in the morning, is highly beneficial for allergies in the intestinal tract, skin and nasal passages.

Abdominal massage is useful in treatment of constipation
Abdominal massage should not be done after a heavy meal, but after two hours or so. The
bladder should be emptied before the massage.

The natural iodine in the sea water is said to relieve arthritis pain. As is well-known, iodine regulates the acid-alkaline balance in the blood and tissues, helps to repair and regenerate worn out tissues and nourishes the skeletal structure
If sea bathing is not possible, relax for 30 minutes every night in a tub of warm water in which a cupful of sea salt has been mixed. The minerals in the sea salt, especially iodine, can be absorbed through the skin pores. This will help correct an internal imbalance. Be sure your water is warm. After your bath, drink warm water with the juice of a lemon

There is an amazing increase in nutrients in sprouted foods when compared to their dried
embryo.
Analysis of dried seeds, grains and legumes shows a very low water content. But this increases up to tenfold when the same food is converted into sprouts

Treat constipation to treat cancer

Defective vision may also be improved by neck exercises:


Vitamin C is not sufficient to overcome a cold.
The patient should strengthen the system as a whole by taking a diet which supplies all the
vitamins and minerals the body needs. Vitamin C, however, heads the list of these nutrients. It
protects one against infection and acts as a harmless antibiotics

Lime is the most important among the many home remedies for common cold. It is highly
beneficial in all types of cold and fevers. It should be taken well diluted
Lime juice should be diluted in a glass of warm water, and a teaspoonful of honey should be added to it. It forms an ideal remedy for a cold and dry cough.

Drinking a lot of water with lemon juice will protect the damaged liver cells. Alternate hot and
cold compresses should be applied to the abdomen. Maintain the hot compress for one minute
at 120º F. Alternate with a cold compress at 60o F for few minutes. The treatment may be
continued for an hour or 10 repetitions. The procedure should be repeated at five-hourly
intervals.

The nature cure also offers water for weak eyes. The method is splashing:
Splash cold, plain water several times on closed eyes. Rub the closed lids briskly for a minute with a clean towel. This exercise cools the eyes and boosts blood supply.
Be sure only to splash water on the eyes. Essential oils or soaps, in particular, could be damaging.


The common water temperature chart is: cold 10ºC to 18ºC, neutral 32ºC to 36ºC, and hot 40ºC to 45ºC. Above 45ºC, water loses its therapeutic value and is destructive.

A simple but effective remedy for itching is water.

Smelly foods are good for you. Their odour is often due to the presence of sulphur.
Without the mineral sulphur, there could be no proteins


