how economy grow and why it reahes

But
with his daily toil so devoted to fi shing, how could these dreams
ever come true?
Able is demonstrating a basic economic
principle that can lead to an improvement in living
standards: He is underconsuming and he is taking risk!

Given the competition
for scarce food, the harshness of the elements, the danger of
predators, the vulnerability to disease, and the relative rarity
of innovation, bare-bones survival (with some time left over
for reproduction) is about all animals can attain

But the economy didn’t grow because
they consumed more. They consumed more because the
economy grew. This is a simple concept, but it’s amazing
what modern economists can do with a simple concept.
Most economists think that demand can be increased
by giving people more money to spend. But that doesn’t
change real demand, just how much people can spend on
items that have been produced. Only by increasing supply
can people actually get more of what they demand.

Essentially, the lender can benefi t only if the borrower benefi ts.
Of course, others may not see the mutual benefi ts as clearly.
What if, upon seeing Able’s sudden expansion of wealth,
Baker and Charlie grew envious and demanded a portion of
his savings?

charity option sounds more
magnanimous, and may improve
Able’s popularity,
it doesn’t provide
the economic
boost that
a business
loan would.

The best thing about private
capitalism is that it forces those who may only be motivated
by personal gain to raise the living standards of others

ealth is always a relative term. In a primitive
society where little is produced, even the richest
can’t match the material well-being available to the poor
of an industrialized economy.

In modern
economics, some have even labeled this idea “the labor
theory of value,” which states that profi t is created by paying
workers less than they are worth

The bottom line is that loans made to businesses that do
not succeed waste society’s store of savings and diminish
productive capacity

There are other types
of loans that Able could have made—consumption loans and
emergency loans.

henever an outside force, such as government, encourages
or demands that savers make loans for reasons
that may have nothing to do with the actual likelihood of
repayment, higher degrees of loss are almost inevitable

Although
he also understands that the risk
of nonrepayment is high, he
understands that the
risk in not making
the loan is higher. Unlike
the consumption loan, Baker and
Charlie can perish if the emergency loan is not made

hen confronted with the possibility of economic
contraction, politicians and bankers frequently discuss
the need to “expand credit” by increasing the amount
of money available to be lent

Although many economists
today view natural disasters as stimulative to an economy,
the truth is fl oods, fi res, hurricanes, and earthquakes
destroy wealth and diminish living standards.

But in our modern world, the fl ow of
money across borders and the seemingly magical qualities
of the printing press have temporarily blinded many
Americans to the simple truth that we can’t consume more
than we produce, or borrow more than we save … at least
not for very long.

Duffy was a little better at
cutting, hauling, and chopping wood and could make a
canoe in just four days.Duffy would be much
better off if he just made
canoes. As he would
only have to defer
eight fi sh in
income to build
a canoe, he could
make a profi t by
charging nine fi sh for
one of his canoes. He
could raise his income
through specialization

As a result of this improved effi ciency—made possible by
savings, innovation, and investment—the price for canoes
came down and the benefi ts of canoe ownership became
available to a wider pool of buyersIn fact, as prices for all things come down
through similar productivity gains in other industries, the
fi sh he earns will enable him to buy more things

each worker is free to:
 Underconsume to build a net.
 Take out a business loan to buy a net.
 Work for someone who already has a net.

Relying
solely on his brawn, Finnigan was able
to deliver 100 fi sh per day from the
beach to people’s huts. At a 2 percent
freight charge, Finnigan could earn two
fi sh per day working for himself

Murray could
deliver 300 fi sh per day, even though he was
not nearly as strong as Finnigan. Based
on his high level of productivity,
he charged only a 1 percent rate,
thereby earning three fi sh per day

Hopefully, at some point down the road, Finnigan could save
up his income and build his own cart to compete against his
former boss. In order to prevent this from happening, Murray
would have to pay Finnigan more than he could have gotten
on his own, and enough to discourage him from leaving the
company.

At the slightest whiff of
defl ation, governments will typically enact policies to push
prices back up. We are told that if prices were to fall, people
would stop buying, companies would stop spending, workers
would lose their jobs, and we would all return to the
economic dark ages

Modern economists mistakenly assume that spending drives
growth, and that when defl ation is present, people tend
to defer purchases (to allow prices to fall); and when they
do spend, the diminished price makes less of an economic
impact. This is absurd.
As we’ve said before, it’s not the spending that means
anything. It’s the production that counts!

For instance, the Fed could boost a struggling economy by
lowering interest rates to the point where businesses and
consumers would be more inclined to borrow. In very good
times, when overconfi dence often leads to foolishness, the
Fed is supposed to do the opposite and raise rates so that
people will think twice about taking out loans


First, it assumes that a small group of people at the Fed
can make better decisions than millions of people making
independent decisions (also known as “the marketplace”)
about the proper level of interest rates

Currently, many politicians and economists erroneously
view infrastructure spending not as a near-term cost that
may lead to long-term gain, but as an immediate means
to create jobs and boost the economy. This view can
lead to costly misallocations of resources and the unseen
destruction of jobs in other areas.

When a government project experiences cost overruns or poor
service, free market discipline does not come to the rescue.
The government simply raises taxes to fi ll the gap. In so doing,
it wastes societal resources, and living standards drop

For instance, if a foreign manufacturer can deliver T-shirts to
the United States that sell for less than domestically produced
alternatives, then Americans can spend less on T-shirts

The money saved would be available to be spent on other
things…. skateboards perhaps. This would benefi t the skateboard
companies that may still be located in the United States and
that can deliver the most valuable product in their category.
But what about the workers of the domestic T-shirt
manufacturers who lose their jobs? If their employers cannot
fi nd ways to compete more effectively in the T-shirt business,
it is true that the workers will have to fi nd other work. But
it is not the aim of an economy to provide jobs. The goal is
simply to maximize productivity

Because the islanders understood that government
spending was really the same as taxpayer spending, they
believed that it should be the taxpayers who decided how
the money was spent. As a result, voting was restricted to
those who paid tax

the Fed’s decisions are always determined by political,
rather than economic, considerations.Presidents seeking reelection will always
bang the drum for lower rates, and they will pressure the Fed
to help out.

If elected,
I will institute
a government
reconstruction
program for our
neediest citizens to
repair the damage. But he assured the citizens that the cost of
the construction would be paid for by the economic activity
the spending generated.
His opponent, Grouper Cleveland, offered nothing, except
wise stewardship of the island’s savings and a promise not to
interfere with the liberties of the citizenry.His election victory did not change the fact that there were
not enough fi sh reserves to fi nance the spending plans he
envisioned. The government would issue paper money called Fish
Reserve Notes, which would
be redeemable for actual
government fi sh stored
at the Goodbank.

When
they found
a project that
would be guaranteed to have enough support from potential
voters, they handed out the new notes to make it happen.Soon, Franky and his
agents had handed
out far more Fish
Reserve Notes than
the government’s
account had fi sh
to redeem

They sculpted,
molded, glued, and sealed. Using this process they were
able to produce four passable fi sh out of the three. Fish don’t grow on trees! All the
senators can do is create fake fi sh by diminishing the value of
the island’s savings!

So for a start,
‘offi cial fi sh’ won’t need to be too much smaller. We’ll
make 10 offi cial ones out of every nine real ones, so they’ll
be only 10% smaller. In addition—and this is the genius
part—we’ll pass a law to prevent islanders from comparing
them to real fi sh

Our Fishing
Department will be the wave of the future. We’ll put in only
our most trusted friends as managers, and we’ll give special
prizes to the workers who show the greatest civic spirit. And
besides, we only need to keep it going through the next
election. After that we’ll think up a more long-term plan….
I promise we will.

We will
declare that all deposits will be guaranteed by a new
government agency called the Fish Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC for short). Once people know that
the senate stands behind their deposits, who’s going to
withdraw their fi sh? With insurance in place, depositors
will think that we are protecting their savings even while
we loot its value.

Over the past 100 years, the dollar has lost more than 95
percent of its value. So much for price stability! The truth is
that the Fed now exists for the sole purpose of providing the
infl ation necessary to allow the government to spend more
than it collects in taxes

During the Depression, President Roosevelt decided to
devalue the dollar against gold.We are left with a currency that has no real value and can
be expanded at will

With no personal incentives to take risks and make
profi ts, the Fishing Department failed to
become a model of effi ciency
The rate of increase of actual fi sh
production did not rise as fast as the
supply of Fish Reserve Notes

Soon so many Fish Reserve
Notes had been issued
that the technicians had
to increase the conversion
rate

As offi cial fi sh became smaller and
smaller, it soon became apparent
that the islanders could no longer
survive on just one fi sh per day.
Most now ate two per day, at
minimum.Given that fi sh were used as money on the island, prices for
everything had to go up to keep pace with the diminished
nutritional value of fi sh.

He further theorized that a fi shfl ation level
of only one-half of a fi sh belly per year would be optimal.
Fishfl ation, he argued, was essential to an expanding
economy!

Since fi shfl ation discouraged saving, bank deposits dwindled.
As a result, there were less fi sh available to fund promising
projects or prop up sagging businesses

Lindy
promised that if elected not only would he furnish the canoe
navy with bigger spears, but he would also help the sagging
economy by providing emergency unemployment fi sh notes
to all laid-off workers.

But rising prices are merely the results of infl ation! The
infl ation is the expansion of the money supply.

During a recession people wisely stop spending. When they
do, demand drops and prices should fall. But sometimes these
forces are counterbalanced by an expanding money supply
that diminishes the value of currency

Sensing that the possession of the notes would allow his
island greater access to the transoceanic economy, the
Sinopian ambassador offered to exchange fi sh caught by his
citizens for Fish Reserve Notes.But before they drew up the paperwork, the Sinopian
ambassador asked for reassurance that Fish Reserve Notes
would always have real value.

The major question for the Sinopians was what to do with
all the notes. The best thing would be to trade them for
goods made by the Usonians.

Given the lack of a banking system in their
home island, they decided to leave this trade surplus on
deposit at the Fish Reserve Bank, where it would at least
earn some interest.

Those who purchased nets from the king could
keep all the extra fi sh they caught.Those who purchased nets from the king could
keep all the extra fi sh they caught

Most see it as a mutually benefi cial system whereby the
United States gets cheap products and cheap loans, and
China gets manufacturing jobs.The Americans do well: they get stuff without producing it
and they get to borrow money without having to save. For
their part, the Chinese get to work without consuming what
they produce.
They save, but they don’t get to borrow. Where’s the benefi t
there?

As the world’s offi cial reserve,
the dollar is accepted as the exchange currency for any
international transaction.

By holding their currency to a strict peg against the U.S.
dollar, the Chinese authorities have essentially required
that their citizens hold at least some of their savings in U.S.
dollars.Without these savings from China and other nations,
everyone in the United States including the government
would have a much more diffi cult time borrowing

Sinopian savings pushing down
interest rates, Usonian entrepreneurs descended on
bank loan offi cers with their best business ideas.He argued that the Usonian economy had
developed to the point where the lowly process of fi shing
and production could be relegated to poorer economies

Soon more service sector businesses began to take root. The
manufacturing facilities that had once populated the island
began to be replaced by retail operations that sold goods
primarily made on other islands.

Since
the king’s policy involved the accumulation of Fish Reserve
Notes, he mandated that most of this new capacity be
devoted to products that could be exported.

In a typical trade relationship (like the one
between Bongobia and Dervishia),
Sinopian goods would have
been exchanged for
Usonian goods that
were in demand
back in Sinopia.
But the Sinopian
willingness
to accumulate
notes produced a
completely different
relationship in
which one island
largely produced and
the other consumed.

Sinopians who made surfboards but were too busy working to
ever surf themselves.
Of course, the Sinopians believed that their ultimate
reward would come in the future, when they could stop
fi shing and live off their savings of Fish Reserve Notes.
Little did they realize that Usonia lacked the fi shing
capacity to feed its own citizens, let alone make good on
all its outstanding notes.


Barnacle saw
consumption as the elusive driving force of growth. The
biggest consumers were therefore considered the engines
of growth.

Normally, trade defi cits tend to be self-correcting.
A country with a trade surplus, in that it sells more abroad
than it buys, will create an international demand for its
currency. If you want its stuff, you need its currency. As a
result, strong trading positions tend to strengthen a country’s
currency. The opposite is true with countries with weak
trading positions. If no one wants your stuff, no one really
needs your currency.
But when a country’s currency rises, its products become
more expensive. This gives a competitive opportunity to
countries with weak currencies to start selling some of their
products into that market. When they sell more, demand for
their currencies rises. This currency counterweight should
keep runaway trade imbalances in check.But the dollar’s reserve status, and the decision of the Chinese
government to maintain the currency peg, has gummed
up the machinery and has allowed the situation to grow
dangerously out of kilter.

He
took the bold step of closing
the bank’s fi sh window to
foreign depositors! From now
on, the value of Fish Reserve
Notes on the international
market would be determined
only by what someone was
prepared to trade for them,
not because they could be
redeemed for fi sh. In truth,
the notes’ value would hang on
Usonia’s status as a great economic and military power

The breaking of the “fi sh standard” caused many islands
around the ocean to lose confi dence in the notes. Not
surprisingly, their value dropped sharply. But as they were still
the most common form of money across the ocean, the fall
eventually stabilized

Even if people didn’t want the metal as money, it still had
value based on its other uses and relative scarcity.
In contrast, paper money has value only as long as enough
people agree to take it in exchange for goods and services.
But that makes its value completely subjective. Since it
can be produced at will, and has no intrinsic value itself,
the paper can become worthless if enough people lose
faith in it.

But now we are in a “through the looking glass” world where,
for the past 40 years, no country issues real money. This is the
biggest monetary experiment ever conducted

Soon so many Fish Reserve
Notes had been issued
that the technicians had
to increase the conversion
rate

Given that fi sh were used as money on the island, prices for
everything had to go up to keep pace with the diminished
nutritional value of fi sh.

He further theorized that a fi shfl ation level
of only one-half of a fi sh belly per year would be optimal

Since fi shfl ation discouraged saving, bank deposits dwindled.
As a result, there were less fi sh available to fund promising
projects or prop up sagging businesses. In response,
businesses cut back and workers were laid off

Lindy
promised that if elected not only would he furnish the canoe
navy with bigger spears, but he would also help the sagging
economy by providing emergency unemployment fi sh notes
to all laid-off workers.

Nearly everyone believes that rising prices means infl ation.
So if prices aren’t rising, there must be no infl ation.
But rising prices are merely the results of infl ation! The
infl ation is the expansion of the money supply

During a recession people wisely stop spending. When they
do, demand drops and prices should fall. But sometimes these
forces are counterbalanced by an expanding money supply
that diminishes the value of currency

Somehow, modern economists see falling prices as a neverending
abyss toward demand destruction. They forget that
when prices fall far enough, people start spending again

Every day brought a new cargo canoe from Sinopia to make a
deposit of fi sh, and every day the Sinopians got a new pile of
Fish Reserve Notes in exchange.

The major question for the Sinopians was what to do with
all the notes. The best thing would be to trade them for
goods made by the Usonians.After all their buying, the Sinopians had some Fish Reserve
Notes left over. Given the lack of a banking system in their
home island, they decided to leave this trade surplus on
deposit at the Fish Reserve Bank, where it would at least
earn some interest.

Even
though the Usonians were spending more than they saved, there
was still plenty of fi sh available to lend at low rates of interest.

Sinopian entrepreneurs were now
able to build factories to make other goods, like spoons and
bowls. And even though most Sinopians still lacked these
things, they sold these goods back to Usonians, for, you
guessed it, more Fish Reserve Notes

Most see it as a mutually benefi cial system whereby the
United States gets cheap products and cheap loans, and
China gets manufacturing jobs. But is such an arrangement
really a benefi t for both parties?
The Americans do well: they get stuff without producing it
and they get to borrow money without having to save. For
their part, the Chinese get to work without consuming what
they produce.

As the world’s offi cial reserve,
the dollar is accepted as the exchange currency for any
international transaction. This means that everyone, not just
the United States and its trading partners, needs dollars to
conduct trade. So even if no one actually buys things that are
made in this country, dollars are always in demand

Many of these dollars held by foreigners are typically
deposited in American banks, where they can be borrowed by
Americans. That way we can spend even if we don’t save.
By holding their currency to a strict peg against the U.S.
dollar, the Chinese authorities have essentially required
that their citizens hold at least some of their savings in U.S.
dollars.

with the infl ux of Sinopian savings pushing down
interest rates, Usonian entrepreneurs descended on
bank loan offi cers with their best business ideas

He argued that the Usonian economy had
developed to the point where the lowly process of fi shing
and production could be relegated to poorer economies

Charlie’s descendants
landed a big loan to vastly expand their surfi ng school
operations.

The
manufacturing facilities that had once populated the island
began to be replaced by retail operations that sold goods
primarily made on other islands.

As fi sh production became more effi cient, workers were
freed up for other tasks, most notably, manufacturing. Since
the king’s policy involved the accumulation of Fish Reserve
Notes, he mandated that most of this new capacity be
devoted to products that could be exported

In a typical trade relationship (like the one
between Bongobia and Dervishia),
Sinopian goods would have
been exchanged for
Usonian goods that
were in demand
back in Sinopia.
But the Sinopian
willingness
to accumulate
notes produced a
completely different
relationship in
which one island
largely produced and
the other consumed.

like most economists of his generation, Barnacle saw
consumption as the elusive driving force of growth. The
biggest consumers were therefore considered the engines
of growth.But shopping in a mall is much more pleasurable than
working in a mill

The most visible statistic that charts the problem of global imbalances is the
U.S. trade defi cit.For most of our history the United States
exported much more than it imported, resulting in trade
surpluses.We
used the excess funds to build more capital at home, and to
buy up more capital abroad. In the process we became the
richest country on the planet

But in the late 1960s the trade
balance started to change, and by 1976 the United States
began running persistent trade defi cits.
The dollar’s reserve status has played a signifi cant role
in allowing this defi cit to grow unchecked.

For the fi rst decade of the twenty-fi rst century, which
corresponded with the rise of China as an export economy,
the U.S. trade defi cit averaged around $600 billion per year

Normally, trade defi cits tend to be self-correcting.But when a country’s currency rises, its products become
more expensive. This gives a competitive opportunity to
countries with weak currencies to start selling some of their
products into that market.

as Fish Reserve Notes continued to pour
out of Usonia and pile up on islands throughout the
ocean, some foreign holders began questioning the
ability of Usonia to redeem them with actual fi sh.

From now
on, the value of Fish Reserve
Notes on the international
market would be determined
only by what someone was
prepared to trade for them,
not because they could be
redeemed for fi sh. In truth,
the notes’ value would hang on
Usonia’s status as a great economic and military power


paper money has value only as long as enough
people agree to take it in exchange for goods and services.
But that makes its value completely subjective. Since it
can be produced at will, and has no intrinsic value itself,
the paper can become worthless if enough people lose
faith in it.

Precious metals have all
the qualities that make money valuable and useful: scarcity,
desirability, uniformity, durability, and malleability

unlike a loan made
to an entrepreneur with an unproven business idea, a hut
loan came with a piece of solid collateral attached…the hut
itself. If the borrower couldn’t pay back the loan, the bank
would take possession of the hut, which it could resell to pay
off the loan.

Cod created two
agencies—Finnie Mae and Fishy Mac—to buy hut loans
from the bank. The hut buyer would then pay back the
agencies directly. The bank would immediately get back its
principal, which it could use to make new loans (and be
rewarded with a generous fee for its efforts). With the Senate
guarantees in place, the bank dropped interest rates as it no
longer needed the extra revenue to protect itself from losses
due to defaulting loans.

The Senate had distorted the credit market by imposing
incentives that favored hut loans and education loans over
other loans that had no guarantees. Loans were now being
made not because they were necessarily the best use of
savings, but because the senators had a political stake in
encouraging hut ownership and education

With steady price
increases, islanders began to perceive hut ownership not just
as an expense worth shouldering but as a vital investment

profi ts made from buying and selling huts would be
largely tax free

The infl ux of Sinopian investment fi sh into the hut loan
market swelled the availability of credit and brought down
interest rates even further

hut prices really started
to go wild

But the rapid rise in hut prices was a boon to the senators.
The easy riches made voters feel wealthy and provided
circumstantial evidence of wise economic leadership

Politicians wanted to keep voter confi dence high through a
sense of false prosperity; businesses wanted to keep consumers
spending on products and services that they really couldn’t
afford; cable networks wanted to keep ratings high with
optimistic hurrahs; and banks, mortgage originators, and real
estate brokers wanted to continue making money on fees and
interest

Soon, buyers—both large and small—fi gured the market
had peaked. Many decided that they should sell their current
properties, take their frothy profi ts, and wait for a more
favorable time to reinvest.

In short order, the island was awash with sellers
and devoid of buyers. When that happened, the unthinkable
occurred—prices didn’t just decline in a modest, orderly
fashion…they started plummeting

This situation was further complicated when temporally
low introductory teaser rates

Without
any understanding of why
savings and production fuel
economic growth, the Senate
decided on a program of bailouts
and stimuli

For some reason the people
don’t want to borrow. Perhaps the loan
application is still too complicated.
But for now, we need to push interest
rates lower and then give people more
tax breaks to buy huts. That should
create a lot of demand for
loans, which should stop hut
prices from falling and get hut
builders busy again

But for now, we need to push interest
rates lower and then give people more
tax breaks to buy huts. That should
create a lot of demand for
loans,

the island economy would
actually be better off if hut prices came down and
building ceased altogether, at least until real demand
returned. That way people could spend less on huts and
have more to spend on things the economy lacked—like
new businesses and carts that could be pulled by just
one donkey.Unfortunately, government interventions would prevent
this natural reallocation of resources from occurring

Well, sir, we plan on distributing new Fish Reserve Notes to
all the citizens. That should get them spending

Bass’s ambassadors
convinced the Sinopians that a sale of the Water Works was
politically impossible. Instead, the Sinopians somewhat
bitterly agreed to make a 100,000-fi sh loan

But from 1997 to 2006 national home prices gained an
astounding 19.4 percent per year on average

Even if there
had been no other economic reversals that followed the
housing bust (which there were), the economy would have
had to shrink without all the free cash. A recession was not
only inevitable but absolutely necessary to rebalance the
economy.

But when the economy started to contract, lawmakers and
economists treated the development not as the inevitable
consequence of years of easy money and overspending, but as
the problem itself

And although the numbers
look bad, we are still able to sell most of this debt on the open
market, primarily to foreigners.

Default, which does offer
the possibility of a real reckoning and a fresh beginning, is
actually the better alternative
