Here’s a counterintuitive reason why the way you communicate matters:

Let’s say you put a profile on OKCupid. You could be the nicest person, you could have the best job and education, you could have the best style…

But all someone sees is your profile.

None of your background, your upbringing, your great family…none of that matters. Nobody sees it. All they see are the words on a page and your photo.

Same thing if you own a business. You could have the best product, the best support, thousands of successful customers…

But nobody sees that. You have 5 seconds to convince someone to keep reading – or they’re gone forever.

This is why the words you use are so important

Let’s talk about CODE WORDS.

Here a classic:

“I’m not looking for a relationship right now” = “I’m not looking for a relationship WITH YOU.”

Yes to the 250,000 guys reading this, with your jaws dropping in sudden realization. That’s what she really meant.

Or try these 2 code words:

“Let’s get together soon” = “You are not a priority for me to get specific enough”



The most interesting part of these code words is how we use them with OURSELVES.



LEVER #1: DESIGN YOUR CALENDAR THE NIGHT BEFORE

Most of us wake up, go to work, and spend the entire day reacting to other people’s expectations. If you flip that on its head and “design” your calendar to look the way you want, you can still answer people’s emails/calls – but on your own time.

Here’s how I do it – including taking a full day off every week to think about strategy.

LEVER #2: WAKING UP EARLY

Stop sighing and saying, “I’m not a morning person.” You can change that in less than a week. If you start your day 1-2 hours earlier than everyone else, you have an indomitable edge.

When I’ve worked with students to change their sleep patterns, we discovered the unsexy tactics of (1) cutting back on caffeine, (2) cutting back on use of screens after 10pm, and (3) setting a “sleep alarm” to begin wrapping up things earlier than usual. They were able to wake up earlier and have amazing, productive days.

LEVER #3: GET FASTER AT REPETITIVE TASKS

I am very proud of 2 things: My ability to win spelling bees and my ability to navigate email. I wish you guys could see me using email. When I use Gmail, my fingers never leave the keyboard. It’s like a virtuoso performance at Carnegie Hall, only on my couch while listening to Hans Zimmer.

If you have repetitive tasks, there is someone who does it faster. Learn from them – just look on YouTube for “gmail efficient.” Gmail has keyboard shortcuts. Excel has templates/formulas. These can easily save you an hour a day.




kitchen skills

use wet clooth underneath cutting borad... have a big bown to collect th epeels instead of reaching bin everytime....hold the blade....maintain the natural angles of the hands....push down and  forth and drag it back...dont ling the knife..make sure ur knuckes are touching the knife and not finger tips



A Rich Life isn’t just about money. It’s about so much more – including the food you eat.