psychology and persuassion
failes folder in gmail


books
the smartest investment book you'll ever read
the millionair next door
why smart people make big money mistakes

articles
caring for your introvert

slow urself down.
study other ppl around u

once sal is maxed out explore other types of copensation
always thank them and reiterate your interest int he posritons
frame it in terms of their benefit, not just your own

YOu: It was a mistake and it won’t happen again, so I’d like to have 
the fee removed. 
(Note: Always end your sentence with strength. Don’t say, “Can 
you remove this?” Say, “I’d like to have this removed.”

consider
investing in yourself: Whether it’s starting a company or getting an
additional degree, there’s often no better investment than your own career

Anyway, the little-known but true fact is that the major predictor 
of your portfolio’s volatility is not due, as most people think, to the
individual stocks you pick, but instead your mix of stocks and bonds
: Your investment plan is more 
important than your actual investments......Take, for example, this book. If we apply the same principle here, 
it means that the way I organized this book is more important than 
any given word in it.



look at all ppl in the grp even though u r speaking to only one abt any important issue. jst to make everybody appreciated.


1-abandon boring social scripts
2-use killer conversation starters


folded hands- defensive not genuine
keep open position..showing ur palms
touching ur face...ppl feel something is wrong
dont ovesmile to project its fake


lifestyle deisgn concepts
financial freedom
mobility
time freedom
80 % of rewards come from 20% actions. majorityof outcome are bcos of minority of causes
continiuos self imporovment
contributing to socieity.


travel safety tip.
keep some change or small money in pocket so that u can throw it down and get chance to run.

how engage ppl
ask how and why question instead of what and where
tell stories


use the lowest natural end of your voice tone..taking deep breath
put emotional emphais on your words.

Attractiveness is the basis of all human relationships.
Our brains are like really hungry toddlers–they are easily bored and demand to be fed with entertaining nuggets
attraction happens in the first 30 seconds.
 Research shows that a person’s most attractive trait is their availability.In friends and long-term romantic partners it is about emotional availability. “Will this person open up to me?”
In business it is about economic and intellectual availability. “Will this person work with me?”.Show people you want to connect, talk and start a relationship

Open body language is more attractive than any outfit, hairstyle or dance move.

We love to see people’s hands. Studies have found that when we can’t see people’s hands we have trouble trusting them


besidesd food shelter clothees..desire to feel important

we point our toes towards attracted person
