So starting from the air conditioning you use at office, to the food you eat at office, everything can be part of CTC

Trick 1 – Including their EPF share inside the CTC itself


Trick 2 – Adding One time Bonus in CTC at the time of joining


Trick 3 – Adding Stock Options in CTC
Stock Options again are not a regular payment source, however they do increase the CTC considerably.



Trick 4 – Adding Insurance Facilities, Food coupons, Transport Facilities to CTC


Trick 5 – Putting Large chunk of variable component in CTC



In my limited experience, pay packages offered by startups or smaller companies are more or less transparent, and artificial increases in CTC are limited



That is how they play with the Offer letter lingo, special allowance is being used as anything-else-that-is-not-mentioned-exclusively (read shift allowance)


Monthly take home salary: (base sal /12) - (Provident Fund) - (Taxes)




CTC amount is meat for company and smart HR guys create CTC breakup in such a way that employee gets somewhat lesser money in their hand.

What you should focus on is the "in-hand" salary. Your CTC is usually comprised of several broad components,

    Taxable Earnings
    Taxable Allowances
    Taxfree Reimbursements ( where you pay from your pocket first and then company gives back you that money later upon the submission of proof )
    Such money is not taxable.
    Deductions for various types, Provident Fund deduction being one of the most visible in CTCs.


CTC = Direct benefits + indirect benefits + saving contributions
Take Home Salary = Direct benefits - employee PF - other deductions if any - income tax


While negotiating with a new employer, one should try to increase the direct benefit part of CTC. For instance, if an organisation is offering transportation, which is an indirect benefit, the employee should try to get it as conveyance allowance which is a direct benefit
Many organisations offer ESI benefits for employee's health. But there are only few ESI (Employee's State Insurance) hospitals where the facility is available. If the employee is offered medical reimbursement, it benefits him more



For instance, you could claim deductions(HRA,medical,80C,interest on housing loan) to the extent of Rs 5 lacs. You taxable income would be Rs 15 lacs.
Your tax will be calculated as follows:
Upto Rs 2.5 lacs: Nil
2.5-5 lacs: 10% (Rs 25 K
5-10 lacs: 20% (Rs 1 lac)
Above 10 lacs: 30% (30% of 5 lacs: Rs 1.5 lacs)
Not accounting for a small cess, your total tax liability will be Rs 2.75 lacs.
You in-hand salary will be 15-2.75=12.25 lacs
Your monthly take home wouls be 12.25/12=~Rs. 1.02 lacs



Medical: Almost every company extends the benefit of INR 1250 PM to its employees for availing various domiciliary medical benefits (OTC Prescription Drugs). A sum of INR 15,000 per annum is exempt from tax.



LTA: Leave Travel Allowance (LTA) is a benefit that entails employees to go on a vacation for at least 5 working days with their family and dependant parents.  The law permits for the least travel cost over 2 destinations as exempt from calculation as part of taxable income



Special Allowance: This is typically the residual factor.  After having determined all the above components and other Benefits/Retiral costs, any sum of money that remains to make up the annual CTC, forms part of what is called the special allowance.



However, it must be borne in mind that allowances and benefits are as much cultural as they are financial.