Two Microsoft Windows Services must be running for the server to be available
e TIBCO administration server for your domain
e TIBCO Hawk Agent service



TIBCO Administrator is the preferred monitoring and management application 
for TIBCO ActiveMatrix BusinessWorks. However, the process engine is 
instrumented with a TIBCO Hawk microagent that can be used to perform most 
administrative functions

TIBCO Enterprise Management AdvisorTM (EMA) extends TIBCO Administrator 
and allows you to automate the management of resources in your enterprise.
. TIBCO EMA allows managed resources to automatically communicate their availability 
with each other and react accordingly.



There are three ’locations’ or ‘containers’ that a Business Work EAR can be deployed to. These are:
 
1) Business Work Standalone Service Engine
 
2) Business Work Service Engine Implementation Type (BWSE-IT) within an ActiveMatrix Node
 
3) Business Work Service Container (BW-SC)
 
The first two scenarios do not require any special effort during deployment and usually can be done through the admin interfaces (bw-admin for standalone and amx-admin for BWSE-IT). But if one wishes to deploy an EAR to a Service Container then we need to setup the container and make a change in the Process Archive. This tutorial is for a Windows-based system.---
http://tibcobw.webs.com/apps/blog/show/9777707-deploying-to-a-business-work-service-container





While monitoring EMS queues in Admin, we see two params, Receiver Count and Consumer Count; In most of the scenario's, we see that value of these two params is same.

What all can be possible options, where we can see different values in Receiver and Consumer count.

Consumers are the physical connections that established to that queue, where bridge is also receiver, try creating a bridge and you see the change in that.




However in situations where memory pool is quite high and there is no fear of memory shortage, you can specify value of MAX JOB as 0 (zero). In this case, unlimited numbers of process instances get loaded in the memory without any paging done.

same goes with flowlimit